hello okay so this is an entirely new
series whereby you can ask me any
question you want about the ielts test
or just life in general and i'm going to
answer every single question for you
this month's questions came from the
community page
post and if you're a subscriber to this
youtube channel you'll be able to see
those posts
now if you want to ask a question for
next month
pop it into the comments below let's get
started
okie okey-dokey first question pradoman
hey i am planning to give
ielts so where should i start from uh
good question protoman okay first thing
you want to do
there is probably get an idea of the
test format itself
all of this stuff is actually available
on the idp website or british council or
wherever you're taking the test from
you want to know what's included in the
ielts test but then you want to get a
bit of an
overview of every single task the best
way to do that is
actually on e2language.com because we
have overview videos
okay next question is from chillout
writing is problematic
make video on letter and essay writing
and please
plz explain structure of all
essay type questions you my friend are
in luck
because the methods lessons that are
here on youtube
cover exactly that we go through the
structures that you need for your
writing task 1
and all of the different essay question
types writing task 2.
just bear in mind that only about half
of them are here on youtube
all of them are on e2language.com
i was concerned about this question
appearing here we go manpreet
are you single uh i
am in love with teaching eye health oh
god help me
uh next question from syed how to become
an ielts coach or
trainer okay so first of all syed
you need to have a really good
background in languages linguistics and
english language specifically you need
to know the nuts and bolts the grammar
the pronunciation
the structure the semantics the syntax
all of that stuff
from there you'll then study the ielts
test itself
learn all the ins and outs of the test
but
yeah actually then you just have to
start teaching it because the only way
to become a good teacher is to actually
teach it
and the other thing i'll say is there if
you really want to become a good ielts
teacher you have to go and take the test
yourself
sonica do you provide online classes for
ielts as a
tutor me personally i don't take the
tutorials or the live classes
but we have a team of expert ielts
teachers who do
next question is from van ae
help said that your ppf method doesn't
work in the ielts test i'm confused
which one is more corrected
uh it's a good question uh i guess the
evidence speaks for itself and that is
that we've had
tens of thousands of people now use the
ppf method to great success
next question is i believe from a
russian i could be wrong there
hi i have one difficult choice between
the best
dictionary to learn new words good
question
i think the oxford english dictionary is
the best
okie dokie rit kapoor how to choose
ielts
test date that's a great question
obviously you have things like
university
entrance dates or your migration visa
requirements etc which you need to keep
in mind
but then you need to think about how
ready are you for your ielts test
do you need just three days preparation
three weeks three months
maybe a year who knows so you need to
sort of make those decisions
one of the best things that you can do
is take a mock test to get an idea of
where your
level currently is and then think
forward from there
okay lumna many people say evaluation of
ielts speaking depends upon the country
where you take it
a non-native english speaker might be
judged on more strict grounds if the
examiner is a native english speaker is
it true
i think there's probably some truth to
that
let's face facts here examiners aren't
perfect
neither are computer algorithms language
is a very difficult thing to measure
uh if you're thinking about flying from
one country to another because it might
be
give you a better chance of success i
think that's probably a little bit
bonkers
don't do that ah but
i think again just prepare properly then
you don't have to worry about these
conspiracy theories
okay it looks like we've got a
vietnamese name here
sorry how to write a draft in writing
task two um
structure for all of the writing
assessments
structure is key and particularly for
the essay once you
know how to structure up an introductory
paragraph
your body paragraphs your conclusions
writing these essays becomes
a lot easier and ask after you've
mastered
the structure you can then focus more on
the grammar
your task response vocabulary etc
but the structure is the skeleton that
you need to get right
okay v joy i want to know how to write a
conclusion fair enough the conclusion is
important so remember
in your conclusion of the essay you
don't bring in any new ideas
what you're doing is recapping or
recapitulating
what you've already mentioned there's an
e2 language structure for the conclusion
i suggest you watch that
methods lesson nature explorer please
guide for computerized ielts test
uh okay so i've taken both formats the
paper-based and the computer-based and i
personally like the computer-based test
better it's just a smaller
more friendly environment and the
writing is
easier in the sense that you can type
more quickly therefore you have more
time to edit your essay
um uh tips yeah
it's pretty straightforward to be honest
it's there's gonna be no surprises it
will make
sense to you but make sure you do a few
practice tests the computer-based
practice tests which are available on
the idp website
on the id actually only the idp website
i believe and e2 languages
test preparation is also in the
computer-based format if you want it
that way
next question from nov
i'm here to thank you because of you i
scored eight in reading
overall 7.5 i just love you
thank you appreciate it jimmy patel
understanding versus what i think is
rote learning
which is better okay which is better for
okay okay so i think jimmy is talking
about
should i memorize an essay versus learn
the structure
learn sentence you cannot get away with
memorizing
an essay in the ielts the examiners are
trained to pick memorized essays and
you'll get a
zero you have to use proper english
i really hate to say it you may have to
refine your grammar brush up on your
vocabulary
learn the structures there's no quick
fix for that
if you don't have those skills sujata
here we go hi sir how are you i'm
working as a nurse for the past 26 years
in the gulf i wish to live abroad but at
present i'm working
and people are speaking arabic and
colleagues are speaking in their own
language so i can't improve my
english anyhow i'm practicing from
youtube to write ielts
i don't know how to attend the ielts my
question is
i must go for coaching or i can learn
from youtube this is a very good
question
and how many hours i should practice
please help me blah blah blah blah blah
okay
can you prepare for ielts just by
watching youtube videos the answer is
no at some point you need to put pen to
paper and
actually do some of these exams the
reading test you need to write essays
etc
and what you might need first and
foremost here
is probably some writing feedback you
need to know what errors you're making
then you need to know how to improve
them amongst other things
many other things eros
how can i use the collocations
effectively well you just did you said
an effective collocation okay no
seriously
uh what are collocations collocations
are natural sounding phrases it's a
vocabulary but you're not thinking about
single words
thinking about words that come together
like
you might need to take responsibility or
you might need to
build your vocabulary for example build
vocabulary why do we say build
who knows it's just part of the english
language these are collocations
what you need to do first of all is
notice them
then you need to start using them okay
so when you're reading and listening
hear them or see them
then start actually saying them and
writing them art says
cool bananas thanks odds i
totally agree cool bananas
okay so akib wants to know what does
cool bananas actually mean
i have no idea
next question deep k can we use pencil
for answering and reading and writing
module of ielts
uh yes on test day you'll be given a
pencil
usually a pencil i don't think you're
ever given a pen yes
if you're taking the paper-based test
you'll be using a pencil that includes
writing an essay in pencil by the way
that's kind of tricky okay i think we
have another russian
can you tell more about inquiry on
results good question
how much time it takes is it possible to
get higher band score or lower
okay what this question is about is is
about
is when you take your ielts you get your
results you're unhappy because you think
what
i've only got six for writing i'm sure i
wrote a good essay
i'm going to send it back to ielts for a
remarking or an inquiry on results
how long does it take i've forgotten
precisely i think it might take like
three weeks
or something like that now if they do in
fact increase your
mark you get your money back so it's not
a free thing you have to pay
for an inquiry on results whether you
should do it or not
i've done it several times and each time
they've increased my band scores
but that's just me here's the thing
if you really truly walk out of that
exam thinking i just wrote a great essay
i didn't screw that up everything was
perfect then you're very disappointed by
your results i would say go for it
next question is from jaga hi jay i went
through your ielts writing playlist
and the other one in which you told that
how to classify two idea paragraphs and
one idea paragraphs
however in one of your writing ielts
problems and solutions videos
you wrote one idea paragraph what's
going on oh my god whereas it should
have been a double item can you tell me
about it
the answer to that one is if you want
the latest methods lessons then you need
to go to e2language.com it's all
up to date there here on youtube it's
good but some of the stuff might be
slightly outdated next question
are mocktess more difficult than real
exam
er well on e2 language we write the
questions at the same level of
difficulty as the actual ielts test
there's a real
art to writing these questions it's very
challenging some of the stuff you'll get
off the internet that will be free
will be dodgy some will be good quality
some won't be
and just be careful what practice
practice
material rather you use mandeep is there
any difference between idp and british
council
well as far as i understand idp have the
computer-based ielts test which i highly
recommend
in terms of how they grade your essays
or your speaking in terms of the
format of the test and the difficulty
it's exactly the same
jocelyn is it true that you can choose
to write
all answers in uppercase in your
listening test the answer is yes
okay
[Music]
in listening section for instance
waterproof
can we write this word like water dash
proof
instruction only one word i think the
question there is
if a word is hyphenated it has a hyphen
in it
that's counted actually as one word not
two good question
arif is it possible to go to the u.s
with ielts uh the answer is
you need to check on the migration
website or
through your employer etc i don't want
to give you advice on that
i think broadly the answer is yes but
just double check
steph kiki what are you going to do when
you hit
1 million subscribers would love to see
sir
j drop a sick verse to celebrate
i think a sick verse means that you want
me to sing
i can't sing i don't think
we'll see i'll do something cool kaphil
which one do you prefer between ielts
and toefl and how difficult are they
when you compare them
well they're almost identical whether
you're taking pt academic ielts academic
or toefl
they are created in such a way that the
difficulty levels are
pretty much the same if not i can't say
identical but pretty close
one thing you might want to consider is
the formats of the tests are different
which ones do you like it's up to you
check them out e2 language actually
offers
prep courses on all of those high-stakes
english tests
pukar how to improve your creativity
regarding the question mostly in writing
task two
okay so you're talking here about idea
generation
first of all the question prompts you to
get in your essay will be very
um how can i say they're not going to be
obscure or
abstract they're going to be very common
types of questions
things that you've thought about before
like smoking indoors or outdoors
or online learning versus
non-online learning or something i don't
know straightforward topics like that
you don't need to get too creative in
fact you are not awarded points for
having a great
philosophical answer and just whatever
first pops into your mind just go with
that but do make a little plan before
you start writing
okay next question how to improve word
choice for a non-native speaker
i struggle with it especially in the
writing section
good question word choice is really
important so in the vocabulary criterion
it's called lexical resource that is
when the examiners are reading your
writing
and they're deciding how good your vocab
is one of the things they consider is
precision that is how precise the words
are that you use so when you're thinking
of word you might have a range of
synonyms to use
so your question is which one of those
words should i use
it has to be the most natural sounding
one how do i determine that
this really comes i hate to say from
reading
because the more you read in english the
more that these natural sounding phrases
and your word choice will get better
because you're just exposed to the
language more
otherwise i really can't think of a way
to do it otherwise
okay next question from dr kaiser
cuttack
please make videos on how to improve
listening scores
this is a great question how do you
improve your listening skills because
listening seems to be something that's
like just
natural to us but then when we're
listening to
another language are we hearing are we
listening what's going on there
the key to improving your listening just
very briefly
is actually improving your understanding
of spoken english
okay so spoken english actually includes
obviously vocabulary and grammar and
pronunciation all the
sounds but then there's all these other
elements of spoken english like
sentence stress and word stress and
connected
speech etc if you're not a subscriber to
this youtube channel click subscribe
because we're going to release videos
called the science of speaking which is
going to help you with your listening
yeah next question is from
hashim ranjit singh
is there any limit on the maximum words
in task 2
good question you need to write minimum
250 words in task
2 minimum you are not awarded
more points for a longer essay however
you can write more words if you want
and if you do take the computer
delivered test you'll find yourself
being able to write like 350 or 400
words but
why do that i would write about 300
320 or something like that because you
can extend your ideas
and then you'll have enough time to
actually edit your work and make sure
that it's
accurate okay so don't just try and
write a novel length essay
there's no point keep it tight keep it
well constructed etc
okay
i struggle with managing my time and
concentrating at
reading section how should i improve
this
good question okay so time management is
critical in the reading section you've
got a lot of text to read you've got a
lot of questions to get through
now there's two things that are going to
soak up time
one of them is your understanding of the
text itself
this means that you need to have a large
vocabulary that comes to you
immediately that is you understand the
meaning of the words
automatically right so you need to be
able to
you need to try to improve that just by
doing more reading
and building your vocab the other thing
that will soak up your time is actually
answering the questions
you want to be familiar with the
question formats
and then of course you want to know the
methods the step-by-step approaches
to getting the right answer so all of
these three things combined
will improve your time management in
reading
malmin oh god here we go he looks like
tom felton i think that's the guy from
breaking bad
i've also been told that i look like
malfoy from
harry potter next question
gurmuk no questions just thanks for
every video
next question syed which books can help
us to enhance our reading skills for
academic ielts reading section beginner
to advanced level
okay so let's say your english skills
are not that good you don't have a big
vocabulary
your grammar is not so great you know
you need to build up those fundamental
skills
in that case i wouldn't even really be
doing ielts prep at this stage
okay be concentrating on your general
english skills and just
building vocab building grammar and if
necessary
building your pronunciation as well you
then want to step
into doing ielts prep
all ielts tests are written at the same
level of difficulty which is
difficult so don't be hard on yourself
if you're struggling
but try and maybe then do both at the
same time that is
building your understanding of ielts
while still
building your fundamental skills we
actually have a website called
e2school.com
and there's a course on there called
test ready which will be
uh applicable for you if you're in that
boat
shruti hey jay i hope you're doing well
can you please help me with the academic
reading part especially true false not
given and yes no not given
and also how to deal with difficult
words and finding their synonyms
okay so i think there are three
questions there the first one actually
i'll combine true false not given yes no
not given
okay here we go so you'll see a
statement
right and it's going to be yes no or not
given and that
means it relates to some part of the
text either it says the exact same thing
in different words in which case it will
be yes or true
it might also directly contradict in
which case it's going to be no
or false or there just won't be any
information enough information given
in which case you can't really answer
the question in which case it's going to
be
not given that was a very very quick way
to look at that you might want to check
out the methods lessons what was your
other part of the question
difficult words and finding synonyms
yeah okay so vocab building is
fundamental to this test
i mean vocabulary is fundamental to
language right
really there are three ingredients to
language vocabulary
they're like the bricks grammar that's
like the concrete or the mortar that
sticks the bricks together
and if you're dealing with speaking it's
the sounds or the pronunciation
these three things are fundamental you
may need to build them
before your ielts test simran how to
solve
diagram labeling type question in
reading
um
check out the methods lesson
i mean when i when i think back to the
ielts test that i've done
i kind of remember them you're looking
really for key
nouns because you're labeling a diagram
so you need nouns and these nouns will
stick out of the paragraph
ah check out the methods lesson come to
the live classes where we do this thing
on a daily basis
come across to e2language.com okay next
question
[Music]
what else hello jared
which might be my real name what words
should i memorize to do well in speaking
part
two what words are the most effective
all right there's one word
that if you use in your speaking test
you will get a nine
that word is gullible that was a joke
okay that was a joke like that was
actually a joke
there isn't some word or words that will
make you get a high score
again you need to have a broad
vocabulary because you don't know what
the topic's going to be right you might
have to speak for two minutes on
i know bicycles or uh your favorite
cinema film or something like that
therefore you need a varied vocabulary
sorry christine asks
what is the font size in the reading
passages
uh that's a good question good news is
when you take the computer-based ielts
test you can
increase and decrease the font size so
that's cool
on the paper-based test i don't know
just usual 12-14 maybe
whatever it is it's definitely viewable
hannah
asks hello i think idioms can't be used
in an
essay so if i use put a stop to
something
in an essay is that okay yeah okay so
this sort of
idiomatic language put a stop to
something would be
fine that would be fine
but then you've got like weird idioms
like the flip side of the coin what's it
with the other side of the coin or
raining cats and dogs or you know these
sorts of
i don't know what would you call those
avoid those ones
they're like in a nutshell avoid those
but in terms of idiomatic
academic idiomatic language like put a
stop to something that's actually
fine okay just remember you do want to
make it formal
so if you do have a choice between a
particular sort of
informal sounding word or phrase and a
more formal one
try to choose the more formal one if you
can ishita
hello can we use
hyphen or
brackets i'm thinking during writing
uh yes if you know how to use them
accurately i'd probably avoid using
brackets at some point maybe you would
use them
don't try to force them in if it comes
naturally to you because you know how to
use them then fine
sufian santo make a video for most
important vocabularies for writing and
speaking please
okay good question so we actually have a
video on
band 9 vocabulary for the essays
that'll be in the description below and
we also have on e2language.com things
called topic
toolkits where we actually collect
important vocabulary by
theme like education or health or
government or whatever the
essay topic might be which gives you key
words
so that's over on e2language.com but
they're very helpful
nav which connectors we can use to
improve our fluency in speaking
and how hmm okay
so do you want to purposely
insert connectors into your speaking
well possibly but you want it to come
naturally you don't want them to make
you hesitate for example
um if i were you i would look at some of
those
key connectors like however or as a
result or
some adverbs like potentially or
possibly these are good words but
just don't make it too what's the word
i'm looking for
stale or stuck it needs to be fluent
harry singh can i use contractions like
didn't haven't don't in the speaking
module
the answer is yes you certainly can
because they're completely natural
so go for your life next question is
from
nikita in agree disagree
essay if i agree on one side then i can
write
one body paragraph about disagree point
in one body paragraph about agree point
yes you can but what you want to do is
frame that
let's say you're going to agree and
that's the theme of your essay your
position is agreement with the prompt
you need to take a position right but
you certainly can talk about the other
side of the argument
in another paragraph but you want to
frame that paragraph by saying
some people think this fools
this is why they're wrong etc so yes you
can mention the other side of the
argument
but only in that it supports your
position
okay next question is from jay schwall
hi jay
in writing task two of ielts
it's an essay is it the same for
academic and
general the answer is pretty much
basically the same actually if you're
taking let's say you've got two people
taking the ielts one's taking academic
ones taking general on the same day
they will have diff different question
prompts but the question prompts are
effectively the same like advantages
disadvantages problem solution etc
arguably the general ones slightly
easier
but the same here we go stick with me
let's keep going
harpreet asks how can i use
however for illustration therefore in
between the second sentence
i mean just after the noun or not
i will for illustrative purposes tell
you how
so you can actually slot these little
connectors in the middle of a sentence
and it's actually a good idea many
people just put them at the start of the
sentence like blah blah blah blah blah
full stop however
but it's more elegant and neat and it
actually slightly improves your score if
you can embed
them within the sentence where do you
put them
i actually can't think of that answer
off the top of my head is it after the
now
is it after the verb uh i don't know
you'll have to take a look at some of
the model answers on e2language.com
next question ravindra
we can't afford your ielts budget
package you should be
some more kind towards us
sometimes we do discounts and offers and
like 20 bucks off and stuff like that so
do
make sure that you become a free member
on e2 language when those
special offers arise otherwise hopefully
what we're producing and giving out on
youtube for
free is satisfying here we go
so oluwadara asks my
exam is in a couple of days i've written
a few essays as practice and my friends
that i
send them to say i write as if i'm
talking
how can i stop that please um
okay one thing you want to ask is do you
trust your friends
not like that but like trust them as
english language teachers to give you
feedback and your ielts test maybe you
should be submitting it to someone who
really gets ielts so i don't know what
your writing looks like
if you are writing in that colloquial
colloquial
colloquial sort of way where it's a
little bit too informal
you do want to make it a bit more formal
so maybe it's about sentence structure
or vocabulary choice
i'm just not sure feedback is key
so janja hello sir how can i identify
the semi-formal and formal letter
in writing test for example if i am
writing a letter to my manager it will
come
under formal letter it's a good question
one thing you want to ask yourself is
are you writing to this person for the
first time
for example let's say it's a job
application okay
therefore it will be a formal letter
because you've never met this person
let's say you have a relationship with
the person but there's a power imbalance
like your manager therefore it's going
to be semi-formal okay
so there's slight differences in the uh
in the sign off where you say yours
faithfully or sincerely
a slight change in formality but
very little to be honest ah it's our old
friend dr
khattak again glad to see your smiling
and charming face jay
glad to see yours dr khattak next
question
munal asks a very important question
what is different between you and robert
downey jr
personally i'm just glad that i'm not
malfoy or that other guy
much prefer robert downey jr
richard your videos have
egregious grammar error there richard
have
helped me sorry helped me a lot in
getting my ielts score i got
eight seven point five seven seven in my
first attempt
that's amazing sincere thanks to you
can you please guide me for french
language lessons as well
uh i'm afraid i'd be terribly unhelpful
at teaching you french but
thank you for asking me and well done uh
muhammad i can't mostly
keep eye contact especially when i talk
to someone who knows english better than
i do
is it okay if i don't keep eye contact
in a real ielts exam
okay good question so in real life i
really do
encourage you to maintain eye contact
with people it's kind of terrifying
because they can see your soul but
you have a nice soul so it's fine in the
ielts test it doesn't matter if you
don't maintain eye contact because body
language is not counted although in
saying that
you should maintain some eye contact
with the examiner because there still is
a bit of a personal relationship there
prakash i got 8
8.5 6.5 6.5 because of your class
thank you cool thanks prakash well done
abdullah i'm suffering a lot with the
map-based listening test
please give some tactics to overcome
this problem
okay good question abdullah with that
map based task in the listening test
there is a method uh which you can check
out on the platform at e2language.com
but just very briefly
the map base will always have a
beginning point a starting point from
where they then go and travel around the
little map into the different rooms or
whatever
to the north or to the east et cetera so
it will always take you back to that
starting point so you need to find the
starting point because that's your
bearing
and then the narrator will then from
there take you around the map that's
a good little tip to start off okay
lucky last question is from moyne malek
and it's a good question i can't get the
confidence for the speaking test
okay here's the thing when you get
nervous and everyone's going to get a
bit nervous on
test day because it's a nerve-wracking
environment it's totally fine
you're going to have physical
manifestations of nervousness that is
your heart might flutter or your hands
might sweat you might you know when you
get that weird thing where you run out
of saliva
okay this sort of stuff's just going to
happen okay you just have to accept that
that's the way it's going to be
don't fight it it doesn't matter you can
sweat and tremble it doesn't matter the
examiner doesn't
care about that okay what you need to do
is listen very carefully to the examiner
pay careful attention to them not
focusing on yourself
and the weird manifestations of anxiety
that's going to help you
and then you're going to respond more
appropriately and you're going to get a
better speaking result
yeah you can do it okay
thanks very much for those questions i
enjoyed it i hope you did too hopefully
you learned some
tips if you have questions for me for
next time please pop them into the
comments below don't forget to subscribe
and remember you can ask me anything at
all
specifically about ielts or if you do
have a funky question about life
and universal stuff go for it
you